api/docs/api.md, before:

# CF K8s API Endpoint Documentation

**This document captures API endpoints currently supported by the shim**

## Resources

### Root

Docs: https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#root

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Global API Root | GET / |
| V3 API Root | GET /v3 |

### Resource Matches

Docs: https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#resource-matches

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Create a Resource Match | POST /v3/resource_matches |

#### [Create a Resource Match](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#create-a-resource-match)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/resource_matches" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{}'
```

### Apps

Docs: https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#apps

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| List Apps | GET /v3/apps |
| Get App | GET /v3/apps/\<guid> |
| Create App | POST /v3/apps |
| Set App's Current Droplet | PATCH /v3/apps/\<guid>/relationships/current_droplet |
| Get App's Current Droplet | GET /v3/apps/\<guid>/droplets/current |
| Start App | POST /v3/apps/\<guid>/actions/start |
| Stop App | POST /v3/apps/\<guid>/actions/stop |
| Restart App | POST /v3/apps/\<guid>/actions/restart |
| List App Processes | GET /v3/apps/\<guid>/processes |
| Scale App Process | POST /v3/apps/<guid>/processes/<type>/actions/scale |
| List App Routes | GET /v3/apps/\<guid>/routes |

#### [List Apps](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.110.0/index.html#list-apps)
**Filters:** Currently supports filtering by app `names` and `space_guids`.

```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps?names=app1,app2&space_guids=ad0836b5-09f4-48c0-adb2-2c61e515562f,6030b015-f003-4c9f-8bb4-1ed7ae3d3659"
```

#### [Creating Apps](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.100.0/index.html#the-app-object)
Note : `namespace` needs to exist before creating the app.
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{"name":"my-app","relationships":{"space":{"data":{"guid":"<namespace-name>"}}}}'
```

#### [Setting App's Current Droplet](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.108.0/index.html#update-a-droplet)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps/<app-guid>/relationships/current_droplet" \
  -X PATCH \
  -d '{"data":{"guid":"<droplet-guid>"}}'
```

#### [Getting App's Current Droplet](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.109.0/index.html#get-current-droplet)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps/<app-guid>/droplets/current"
```

#### [Scaling App's Process](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#scale-a-process)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps/<guid>/processes/<type>/actions/scale" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{ "instances": 5, "memory_in_mb": 256, "disk_in_mb": 1024 }'
```


#### [Start an app](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.100.0/index.html#start-an-app)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps/<app-guid>/actions/start" \
  -X POST
```

#### [Stop an app](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.100.0/index.html#stop-an-app)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps/<app-guid>/actions/stop" \
  -X POST
```

#### [Restart an app](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.110.0/index.html#restart-an-app)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps/<app-guid>/actions/restart" \
  -X POST
```

### Packages

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Create Package | POST /v3/packages |
| Upload Package Bits | POST /v3/packages/<guid>/upload |

#### [Creating Packages](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#create-a-package)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/packages" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{"type":"bits","relationships":{"app":{"data":{"guid":"<app-guid-goes-here>"}}}}'
```

#### [Uploading Package Bits](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#upload-package-bits)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/packages/<guid>/upload" \
  -X POST \
  -F bits=@"<path-to-app-source.zip>"
```

### Builds

Docs: https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.100.0/index.html#builds

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Get Build | GET /v3/builds/\<guid> |
| Create Build | POST /v3/builds|

#### [Creating Builds](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#create-a-build)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/builds" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{"package":{"guid":"<package-guid-goes-here>"}}'
```

### Droplet

Docs: https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.100.0/index.html#droplets

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Get Droplet | GET /v3/droplets/\<guid> |

### Process

Docs: https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.100.0/index.html#processes

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Get Process | GET /v3/processes/\<guid>/sidecars |
| Get Process Sidecars | GET /v3/processes/\<guid>/sidecars |
| Scale Process | POST /v3/processes/\<guid>/actions/scale |
| Get Process Stats | POST /v3/processes/\<guid>/stats |

#### [Scaling Processes](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#scale-a-process)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/processes/<guid>/actions/scale" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{ "instances": 5, "memory_in_mb": 256, "disk_in_mb": 1024 }'
```

#### [Get Process Stats](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.110.0/index.html#get-stats-for-a-process)
Currently, we only support fetching stats using the process guid endpoint, i.e., POST /v3/processes/\<guid>/stats.
This endpoint supports populating only the index and state details on the response.
Support for populating other fields will come later.

### Domain

https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#domains

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| List Domains | GET /v3/domains |

#### [List Domains](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#list-domains)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/domains?names=cf-apps.io" \
  -X GET
```

### Routes

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Get Route | GET /v3/routes/\<guid> |
| Get Route List | GET /v3/routes |
| Get Route Destinations | GET /v3/routes/\<guid\>/destinations |
| Create Route | POST /v3/routes |
| Add Destinations to Route | POST /v3/routes/\<guid\>/destinations |

#### [Creating Routes](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#create-a-route)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/routes/<guid>/destinations" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{"host": "hostname","path": "/path","relationships": {"domain": {"data": { "guid": "<domain-guid-goes-here>" }},"space": {"data": { "guid": "<namespace-name>" }}}}'
```

#### [Add Destinations to Route](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.108.0/index.html#insert-destinations-for-a-route)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/routes" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{
        "destinations": [
          {
            "app": {
              "guid": "<app-guid-1>"
            }
          },
          {
            "app": {
              "guid": "<app-guid-2>",
              "process": {
                "type": "api"
              }
            },
            "port": 9000,
            "protocol": "http1"
          }
        ]
      }'
```

### Manifest

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Apply a manifest | POST /v3/spaces/\<space-guid>/actions/apply_manifest |

#### [Applying a manifest](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#create-a-route)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/spaces/<space-guid>/actions/apply_manifest" \
  -X POST \
  -H "Content-type: application/x-yaml" \
  --data-binary @<path-to-manifest.yml>
```

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Create a manifest diff for a space | POST /v3/spaces/\<space-guid>/manifest_diff |

#### [Create a manifest diff for a space](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.109.0/index.html#create-a-manifest-diff-for-a-space-experimental)
**WARNING:** Currently this endpoint always returns an empty diff.

##### Example Request
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/spaces/<space-guid>/manifest_diff" \
  -X POST \
  -H "Content-type: application/x-yaml" \
  --data-binary @<path-to-manifest.yml>
```

##### Example Response
```json
HTTP/1.1 202 OK
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "diff": []
}
```

### Log-Cache API
We support basic, unauthenticated versions of the following [log-cache](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/log-cache) APIs that return hard-coded responses.

#### [Log-Cache Info](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/log-cache#get-apiv1info)

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Retrieve version information | GET /api/v1/info |

#### [Log-Cache Read](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/log-cache#get-apiv1readsource-id)

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Retrieve data by source-id. Currently returns a hard-coded empty list of Loggregator envelopes. | GET /api/v1/read/<source-id> |

### User Identity

_This is not part of the published CF API, and is not supported on CF on VMs._

It is required by the CF CLI when targetting CF-on-k8s, as the CLI needs to
know the username for display in command output and to use in creating roles
during `create-space`. This cannot be inferred from the authentication token
without the help of kubernetes since tokens might be opaque, and even when not,
kubernetes can choose non-standard fields to use as the username, and can
choose to prefix the value.

`ClientCert` authentication provides a client certificate, and we can extract
the username from the subject's common name, but we choose to deal with all
authorization header types in this endpoint to provide a useful common
abstraction.

| Resource                        | Endpoint    |
| ------------------------------- | ----------- |
| User or ServiceAccount identity | GET /whoami |

Commit message:

App developer can view apps in a space using `cf apps` (#320)
closes #313

- add support for order_by=name query parameter on GET /v3/apps
 - we have enabled ordering by name as default behaviour
- add support for filtering by app_guids on
 - GET /v3/processes endpoint
 - GET /v3/routes endpoint
- update api docs

Co-authored-by: Julian Hjortshoj <hjortshojj@vmware.com>
Co-authored-by: Ashwin Krishna <krishnaas@vmware.com>

api/docs/api.md, after:

# CF K8s API Endpoint Documentation

**This document captures API endpoints currently supported by the shim**

## Resources

### Root

Docs: https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#root

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Global API Root | GET / |
| V3 API Root | GET /v3 |

### Resource Matches

Docs: https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#resource-matches

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Create a Resource Match | POST /v3/resource_matches |

#### [Create a Resource Match](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#create-a-resource-match)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/resource_matches" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{}'
```

### Apps

Docs: https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#apps

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| List Apps | GET /v3/apps |
| Get App | GET /v3/apps/\<guid> |
| Create App | POST /v3/apps |
| Set App's Current Droplet | PATCH /v3/apps/\<guid>/relationships/current_droplet |
| Get App's Current Droplet | GET /v3/apps/\<guid>/droplets/current |
| Start App | POST /v3/apps/\<guid>/actions/start |
| Stop App | POST /v3/apps/\<guid>/actions/stop |
| Restart App | POST /v3/apps/\<guid>/actions/restart |
| List App Processes | GET /v3/apps/\<guid>/processes |
| Scale App Process | POST /v3/apps/<guid>/processes/<type>/actions/scale |
| List App Routes | GET /v3/apps/\<guid>/routes |

#### [List Apps](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.110.0/index.html#list-apps)
**Query Parameters:** Currently supports filtering by app `names` and `space_guids` and ordering by `name`.

```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps?names=app1,app2&space_guids=ad0836b5-09f4-48c0-adb2-2c61e515562f,6030b015-f003-4c9f-8bb4-1ed7ae3d3659"
```

#### [Creating Apps](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.100.0/index.html#the-app-object)
Note : `namespace` needs to exist before creating the app.
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{"name":"my-app","relationships":{"space":{"data":{"guid":"<namespace-name>"}}}}'
```

#### [Setting App's Current Droplet](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.108.0/index.html#update-a-droplet)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps/<app-guid>/relationships/current_droplet" \
  -X PATCH \
  -d '{"data":{"guid":"<droplet-guid>"}}'
```

#### [Getting App's Current Droplet](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.109.0/index.html#get-current-droplet)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps/<app-guid>/droplets/current"
```

#### [Scaling App's Process](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#scale-a-process)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps/<guid>/processes/<type>/actions/scale" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{ "instances": 5, "memory_in_mb": 256, "disk_in_mb": 1024 }'
```


#### [Start an app](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.100.0/index.html#start-an-app)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps/<app-guid>/actions/start" \
  -X POST
```

#### [Stop an app](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.100.0/index.html#stop-an-app)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps/<app-guid>/actions/stop" \
  -X POST
```

#### [Restart an app](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.110.0/index.html#restart-an-app)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/apps/<app-guid>/actions/restart" \
  -X POST
```

### Packages

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Create Package | POST /v3/packages |
| Upload Package Bits | POST /v3/packages/<guid>/upload |

#### [Creating Packages](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#create-a-package)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/packages" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{"type":"bits","relationships":{"app":{"data":{"guid":"<app-guid-goes-here>"}}}}'
```

#### [Uploading Package Bits](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#upload-package-bits)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/packages/<guid>/upload" \
  -X POST \
  -F bits=@"<path-to-app-source.zip>"
```

### Builds

Docs: https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.100.0/index.html#builds

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Get Build | GET /v3/builds/\<guid> |
| Create Build | POST /v3/builds|

#### [Creating Builds](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#create-a-build)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/builds" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{"package":{"guid":"<package-guid-goes-here>"}}'
```

### Droplet

Docs: https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.100.0/index.html#droplets

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Get Droplet | GET /v3/droplets/\<guid> |

### Process

Docs: https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.100.0/index.html#processes

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Get Process | GET /v3/processes/\<guid>/sidecars |
| Get Process Sidecars | GET /v3/processes/\<guid>/sidecars |
| Scale Process | POST /v3/processes/\<guid>/actions/scale |
| Get Process Stats | POST /v3/processes/\<guid>/stats |
| List Process | POST /v3/processes |

#### [Scaling Processes](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#scale-a-process)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/processes/<guid>/actions/scale" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{ "instances": 5, "memory_in_mb": 256, "disk_in_mb": 1024 }'
```

#### [Get Process Stats](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.110.0/index.html#get-stats-for-a-process)
Currently, we only support fetching stats using the process guid endpoint, i.e., POST /v3/processes/\<guid>/stats.
This endpoint supports populating only the index and state details on the response.
Support for populating other fields will come later.

#### [List Processes](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.111.0/index.html#list-processes)
**Query Parameters:** Currently supports filtering by `app_guids`.

### Domain

https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#domains

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| List Domains | GET /v3/domains |

#### [List Domains](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#list-domains)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/domains?names=cf-apps.io" \
  -X GET
```

### Routes

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Get Route | GET /v3/routes/\<guid> |
| Get Route List | GET /v3/routes |
| Get Route Destinations | GET /v3/routes/\<guid\>/destinations |
| Create Route | POST /v3/routes |
| Add Destinations to Route | POST /v3/routes/\<guid\>/destinations |

#### [List Routes](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.111.0/index.html#list-routes)
**Query Parameters:** Currently supports filtering by `app_guids`.

#### [Creating Routes](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#create-a-route)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/routes/<guid>/destinations" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{"host": "hostname","path": "/path","relationships": {"domain": {"data": { "guid": "<domain-guid-goes-here>" }},"space": {"data": { "guid": "<namespace-name>" }}}}'
```

#### [Add Destinations to Route](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.108.0/index.html#insert-destinations-for-a-route)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/routes" \
  -X POST \
  -d '{
        "destinations": [
          {
            "app": {
              "guid": "<app-guid-1>"
            }
          },
          {
            "app": {
              "guid": "<app-guid-2>",
              "process": {
                "type": "api"
              }
            },
            "port": 9000,
            "protocol": "http1"
          }
        ]
      }'
```

### Manifest

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Apply a manifest | POST /v3/spaces/\<space-guid>/actions/apply_manifest |

#### [Applying a manifest](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.107.0/index.html#create-a-route)
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/spaces/<space-guid>/actions/apply_manifest" \
  -X POST \
  -H "Content-type: application/x-yaml" \
  --data-binary @<path-to-manifest.yml>
```

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Create a manifest diff for a space | POST /v3/spaces/\<space-guid>/manifest_diff |

#### [Create a manifest diff for a space](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.109.0/index.html#create-a-manifest-diff-for-a-space-experimental)
**WARNING:** Currently this endpoint always returns an empty diff.

##### Example Request
```bash
curl "http://localhost:9000/v3/spaces/<space-guid>/manifest_diff" \
  -X POST \
  -H "Content-type: application/x-yaml" \
  --data-binary @<path-to-manifest.yml>
```

##### Example Response
```json
HTTP/1.1 202 OK
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "diff": []
}
```

### Log-Cache API
We support basic, unauthenticated versions of the following [log-cache](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/log-cache) APIs that return hard-coded responses.

#### [Log-Cache Info](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/log-cache#get-apiv1info)

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Retrieve version information | GET /api/v1/info |

#### [Log-Cache Read](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/log-cache#get-apiv1readsource-id)

| Resource | Endpoint |
|--|--|
| Retrieve data by source-id. Currently returns a hard-coded empty list of Loggregator envelopes. | GET /api/v1/read/<source-id> |

### User Identity

_This is not part of the published CF API, and is not supported on CF on VMs._

It is required by the CF CLI when targetting CF-on-k8s, as the CLI needs to
know the username for display in command output and to use in creating roles
during `create-space`. This cannot be inferred from the authentication token
without the help of kubernetes since tokens might be opaque, and even when not,
kubernetes can choose non-standard fields to use as the username, and can
choose to prefix the value.

`ClientCert` authentication provides a client certificate, and we can extract
the username from the subject's common name, but we choose to deal with all
authorization header types in this endpoint to provide a useful common
abstraction.

| Resource                        | Endpoint    |
| ------------------------------- | ----------- |
| User or ServiceAccount identity | GET /whoami |
