README.md, before:

# cf-k8s-api
This repository contains what we call the "CF API Shim", an experimental implementation of the V3 Cloud Foundry API that is backed entirely by Kubernetes [custom resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/).

For more information about what we're building, check out the [Vision for CF on Kubernetes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rG814raI5UfGUsF_Ycrr8hKQMo1RH9TRMxuvkgHSdLg/edit) document.

## Documentation
While this project seeks to faithfully reproduce the [V3 CF APIs](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/release-candidate/) as much as is feasible, not all APIs have been implemented and not all features are supported.

We maintain our own set of [API Endpoint docs](docs/api.md) for tracking what is currently supported by the Shim.

## Installation

### Dependencies
This project relies on the controllers and CRDs of the [cf-k8s-controllers](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-k8s-controllers) repo. Install it by following the instructions in its [README](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-k8s-controllers/blob/main/README.md).

It also requires the [hierarchical namespace controller](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/hierarchical-namespaces).
To install this, ensure you have targeted the cluster, then run `make hnc-install`.

### Running Locally
make
```make
make run
```
shell
```shell
go run main.go
```

## Contributing

### Running Tests
make
```make
make test
```
shell (testbin must be sourced first if using this method)
```shell
KUBEBUILDER_ASSETS=$PWD/testbin/bin go test ./... -coverprofile cover.out
```

### Updating CRDs for Tests
Some tests run a real Kubernetes API/etcd via the [`envtest`](https://book.kubebuilder.io/reference/envtest.html) package. These tests rely on the CRDs from [cf-k8s-controllers](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-k8s-controllers) which we have vendored in.
To update these CRDs you'll need to install [vendir](https://carvel.dev/vendir/) and run `vendir sync` in the `repositories/fixtures` directory.

### Editing Local Configuration
To specify a custom configuration file, set the `CONFIG` environment variable to its path when running the web server.
Refer to the [default config](config/cf_k8s_api_config.yaml) for the config file structure and options.

*See the comments in the default config file to see which fields must be set manually and what other manual setup is
required.*

## Regenerate kubernetes resources after making changes
To regenerate the kubernetes resources under `./config`, run `make manifests` from the root of the project.

## Generate reference yaml
```
make build-reference
```

## Deploying the app to your cluster

**Note** Supports ingress with only GKE

### Using make
You can deploy the app to your cluster by running `make deploy` from the project root.

### Using Kubectl
You can deploy the app to your cluster by running `kubectl apply -f reference/cf-k8s-api.yaml` from the project root.

Commit message:

Fix package upload failures (#140)
Updated Run Image in the Dockerfile to address,
- Issue with using tmp directory
- Issue with unknown certificate authority
Updated README with command to create image-registry-secret and formatted it.

Co-authored-by: Akira Wong <wakira@vmware.com>
Co-authored-by: Matt Royal <mroyal@vmware.com>

README.md, after:

# cf-k8s-api
This repository contains what we call the "CF API Shim", an experimental implementation of the V3 Cloud Foundry API that is backed entirely by Kubernetes [custom resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/).

For more information about what we're building, check out the [Vision for CF on Kubernetes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rG814raI5UfGUsF_Ycrr8hKQMo1RH9TRMxuvkgHSdLg/edit) document.

## Documentation
While this project seeks to faithfully reproduce the [V3 CF APIs](https://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/release-candidate/) as much as is feasible, not all APIs have been implemented and not all features are supported.

We maintain our own set of [API Endpoint docs](docs/api.md) for tracking what is currently supported by the Shim.

## Installation

### Dependencies
This project relies on the controllers and CRDs of the [cf-k8s-controllers](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-k8s-controllers) repo. Install it by following the instructions in its [README](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-k8s-controllers/blob/main/README.md).

It also requires the [hierarchical namespace controller](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/hierarchical-namespaces).
To install this, ensure you have targeted the cluster, then run `make hnc-install`.

### Running Locally
make
```make
make run
```
shell
```shell
go run main.go
```

### Deploying the app to your cluster

**Note** Supports ingress with only GKE

### Editing Local Configuration
To specify a custom configuration file, set the `CONFIG` environment variable to its path when running the web server.
Refer to the [default config](config/cf_k8s_api_config.yaml) for the config file structure and options.

Edit the file: config/base/cf_k8s_api_config.yaml and set the `packageRegistryBase` field to be the registry location you want your source package image to be uploaded to.

### Using make
You can deploy the app to your cluster by running `make deploy` from the project root.

### Using Kubectl
You can deploy the app to your cluster by running `kubectl apply -f reference/cf-k8s-api.yaml` from the project root.

### Post Deployment
Run the commands below substituting the values for the Docker credentials to the registry where source package images will be uploaded to.

```
kubectl create secret docker-registry image-registry-secret \
    --docker-username="<DOCKER_USERNAME>" \
    --docker-password="<DOCKER_PASSWORD>" \
     --docker-server="<DOCKER_SERVER>" --namespace cf-k8s-api-system
```

## Contributing

### Running Tests
make
```make
make test
```
shell (testbin must be sourced first if using this method)
```shell
KUBEBUILDER_ASSETS=$PWD/testbin/bin go test ./... -coverprofile cover.out
```

### Updating CRDs for Tests
Some tests run a real Kubernetes API/etcd via the [`envtest`](https://book.kubebuilder.io/reference/envtest.html) package. These tests rely on the CRDs from [cf-k8s-controllers](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-k8s-controllers) which we have vendored in.
To update these CRDs you'll need to install [vendir](https://carvel.dev/vendir/) and run `vendir sync` in the `repositories/fixtures` directory.

## Regenerate kubernetes resources after making changes
To regenerate the kubernetes resources under `./config`, run `make manifests` from the root of the project.

## Generate reference yaml

```
make build-reference
```
